Update rustdoc internals (#1271)
rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide: src/rustdoc.md

## Cheat sheet

* Run `./x.py setup tools` before getting started. This will configure `x.py`
  with nice settings for developing rustdoc and other tools, including
  downloading a copy of rustc rather than building it.
* Use `./x.py build` to make a usable
  rustdoc you can run on other projects.
  * Add `library/test` to be able to use `rustdoc --test`.
  * Run `rustup toolchain link local /path/to/build/$TARGET/stage1` to add a
    custom toolchain called `local` to your rustup environment. After running
    that, `cargo +local doc` in any directory will build with your

>     locally-compiled rustdoc.

Reviewer: FWIW, this doesn't work correctly with download-rustc on. Instead, you need to use stage2.

We don't have to address that here, but perhaps change the toolchain name from `local` to `stage1` so it's easier to tell the two stages apart?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I think this should be using the stage2 directory as well since it recommended download-rustc.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

  puppeteer to run tests in a headless browser and check rendering and
  interactivity.

## Constraints

We try to make rustdoc work reasonably well with JavaScript disabled, and when
browsing local files. We support
[these browsers](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/1985-tiered-browser-support.html#supported-browsers).

Supporting local files (`file:///` URLs) brings some surprising restrictions.
Certain browser features that require secure origins, like `localStorage` and
Service Workers, don't work reliably. We can still use such features but we
should make sure pages are still usable without them.

## Multiple runs, same output directory

Rustdoc can be run multiple times for varying inputs, with its output set to the
same directory. That's how cargo produces documentation for dependencies of the
current crate. It can also be done manually if a user wants a big
documentation bundle with all of the docs they care about.

HTML is generated independently for each crate, but there is some cross-crate
information that we update as we add crates to the output directory:

 - crates`<SUFFIX>`.js holds a list of all crates in the output directory.

>  - search-index`<SUFFIX>`.js holds a list of all searchable items.

Reviewer: Hmm, seems like it'd be better to just use `` `crates<SUFFIX>.js` ``. I imagine the way it is now will render in a weird way.

Author: Updated!

## Cheat sheet

* Copy config.toml.example (in the root of your Rust checkout to config.toml,
  add add the lines below. This will speed up build times dramatically by not
  building rustc locally. And skipping minifcation will make debugging JS
  easier.
    download-rustc = true
    download-ci-llvm = true
    skip-rebuild = true

>     docs-minification = false

Reviewer: For one, this should use inline code with `` ```toml ``. But this is handled by using `./x.py setup tools`, so beginners should already be setup. I don't think we really need this here?

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to recommend `x.py setup tools` here; but yeah, I agree we shouldn't recommend custom configs. @jsha could you add `docs-minification = false` to `src/bootstrap/defaults/tools.toml`? I don't think `skip-rebuild` is a good option to set though, that just runs with completely the wrong version (and shouldn't be necessary with `download-ci-llvm` anyway).

* Use `./x.py build` to make a usable rustdoc you can run on other projects.
  * Add `library/test` to be able to use `rustdoc --test`.
  * Use `rustup toolchain link local /path/to/build/$TARGET/stage1`
    to add a custom toolchain named `local`. So long as you have a built rustdoc,
    you can run `cargo +local doc` to create docs using your locally-built
    rustdoc.
* Use `./x.py doc library/std` to use this rustdoc to generate the
  standard library docs.
  * The completed docs will be available in `build/$TARGET/doc/std`.
* Use `./x.py test src/test/rustdoc*` to run the tests using a stage1 rustdoc.
  * See [Rustdoc internals] for more information about tests.

## Code structure

* Most of the HTML printing code is in `src/librustdoc/html/format.rs` and
  `src/librustdoc/html/render/mod.rs`.
  It's in a bunch of `fmt::Display` implementations and supplementary
  functions.

> * The types that got `Display` impls above are defined in `src/librustdoc/clean/mod.rs`, right

Reviewer: Do we really need to prefix _everything_ with `src/librustdoc`? I'd rather add one paragraph at the beginning of the section saying that rustdoc is in `src/librustdoc`, and then use relative paths here.

  next to the custom `Clean` trait used to process them out of the rustc HIR.
* The bits specific to using rustdoc as a test harness are in
  `src/librustdoc/doctest.rs`.
* The Markdown renderer is loaded up in `src/librustdoc/html/markdown.rs`, including functions
  for extracting doctests from a given block of Markdown.
* The tests on the structure of rustdoc HTML output are located in `src/test/rustdoc`, where
  they're handled by the test runner of rustbuild and the supplementary script
  `src/etc/htmldocck.py`.
* Tests on search index generation are located in `src/test/rustdoc-js`, as a
  series of JavaScript files that encode queries on the standard library search
  index and expected results.
* Tests on the "UI" of rustdoc (the terminal output it produces when run) are in
  `src/tests/rustdoc-ui`

> * Tests on the "GUI" of rustdoc are in `src/tests/rustdoc-gui`. These use a

Reviewer: Probably worth defining GUI too.

Rustdoc can be run multiple times for varying inputs, with its output set to the
same directory. That's how cargo produces documentation for dependencies of the
current crate. It can also be done manually if a user wants a big
documentation bundle with all of the docs they care about.

HTML is generated independently for each crate, but there is some cross-crate
information that we update as we add crates to the output directory:

 - crates.js holds a list of all crates in the output directory.
 - search-index.js holds a list of all searchable items.
 - For each trait, there is a file under `implementors/.../trait.TraitName.js`
   containing a list of implementors of that trait. The implementors may be in
   different crates than the trait, and the JS file is updated as we discover
   new ones.

## Use cases

There are a few major use cases for rustdoc that you should keep in mind when
working on it:

### Standard library docs

These are published at https://doc.rust-lang.org/std as part of the Rust release
process. Stable releases are also uploaded to specific versioned URLs like
https://doc.rust-lang.org/1.57.0/std/. Beta and nightly docs are published to

> https://doc.rust-lang.org/beta/std/ and https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/.

Reviewer: I think none of these links will render as `<a>` tags. You need to add `<` and `>` around them.

CloudFront.

The standard library docs contain five crates: alloc, core, proc_macro, std, and
test.

### docs.rs

When crates are published to crates.io, docs.rs automatically builds
and publishes their documentation, for instance at
https://docs.rs/serde/latest/serde/. It always builds with the current nightly
rustdoc, so any changes you land in rustdoc are "insta-stable" in that they will
have an immediate public effect on docs.rs. Old documentation is not rebuilt, so
you will see some variation in UI when browsing old releases in docs.rs. Crate
authors can request rebuilds, which will be run with the latest rustdoc.

Docs.rs performs some transformations on rustdoc's output in order to save
storage and display a navigation bar at the top:

 - The `<body>` tag is renamed to a `<div>` with the id `rustdoc_body_wrapper`
   so docs.rs can have its own body tag.
 - Static files (JS and CSS) are renamed so they unique identifiers (including a
   hash) for each version, and stored independently of the crate docs.

Documentation on docs.rs is always generated for a single crate at a time, so
the search and sidebar functionality don't include dependencies of the current

> crate.

Reviewer: I don't know if this should really be in the rustdoc chapter; it's more relevant for the docs.rs team.

Reviewer 2: The bit about the `body` tag is overkill, but I think this is definitely something we should have in the guide - right now there's no tests for whether static files should be `invocation-specific` or `toolchain-specific`, so people need to know the difference (and the difference only matters for docs.rs).

### Locally generated docs

> Develops run `cargo doc --open` in crates they have checked out locally to see

Reviewer: "Developers" seems to mean "developers of rustdoc", but that's not what you mean AFAICT:

```suggestion
Users can run `cargo doc --open` in crates they have checked out locally to see
```

the docs. This is useful to check that the docs they are writing are useful
and display correctly. It can also be useful to view documentation on crates
they are using. In both cases, they may use `--document-private-items` Cargo
flag to see private methods, fields, and so on, which are normally not
displayed.

By default `cargo doc` will generate documentation for a crate and all of its
dependencies. That can result in a very large documentation bundle, with a large
(and slow) search corpus. The Cargo flag `--no-deps` inhibits that behavior and
generates docs for just the crate.

### Self-hosted project docs

Some projects like to host their own documentation. For example:

> https://docs.serde.rs/. This is easy to do by locally generating docs, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<https://docs.serde.rs>. This is easy to do by locally generating docs, and
```

simply copying them to a web server. There are some flags that can be used in
customizing self-hosted docs:

```
--markdown-css FILES
                CSS files to include via <link> in a rendered Markdown
                file
--html-in-header FILES
                files to include inline in the <head> section of a
                rendered Markdown file or generated documentation
--html-before-content FILES
                files to include inline between <body> and the content
                of a rendered Markdown file or generated documentation
--html-after-content FILES
                files to include inline between the content and
                </body> of a rendered Markdown file or generated
                documentation
--markdown-before-content FILES
                files to include inline between <body> and the content
                of a rendered Markdown file or generated documentation
--markdown-after-content FILES
                files to include inline between the content and

>                 </body> of a rendered Markdown file or generated

Reviewer: It also seems likely to get out of date quickly.
